# 1

"I am the chosen one. Only I can bring peace and restore balance to the land," said the blonde Knight in Shining™ Armor.

"You still don't understand," said the Ranger, clad-in-mail. He hiked up his sleeve and showed the mark that was burned into his arm. "This symbol of the Cruel God Azaz, signifies,"

"Azaz my Az-ass! that your whore of a mother spilled bacon fat on you when you were a child."

The men drew swords and faced off. But before either of them could swing, a thin man, dressed in faded black, stepped between them. He said, "Please my Lords, please, we mustn't fight among ourselves."

"Out of my way Rattick! You are but a hireling!" cried the Ranger, "It is my destiny to run him through."

"Your destiny? Don't be absurd. I am the CHOSEN ONE!" shrieked the Knight.

"Perhaps," said Rattick, "you have both been chosen." They stopped to consider this possibility. Rattick pressed on, "We go to face a mighty foe. A powerful wizard in a deep dungeon. Perhaps all the others have failed not because they didn't have *a* chosen one, but because they didn't have *enough* chosen ones."

"I AM THE CHOSEN ONE!" they both shouted.

Okay, thought Rattick, that was a mistake. Best to let the morons fight it out. But before he could step off the field of idiocy (or battle) the Enchantress chimed in. "Don't talk to him like that," she said, "He is a member of this party. Moreover, the sacred vows I have taken at the Shrine of Lauranda, means that I must treat all beings with courtesy and respect, and eat nothing that has a face," she intoned with reverence.

Surprisingly, this worked. The men lowered their swords and apologized (apologized!) to each other. Rattick stared longingly at the Enchantress. She was beautiful. Her curves were accentuated by the belt of gold rings that encircled her hips and the massive ruby that gleamed from between her breasts. Perhaps there was a way that he could... No. Better not to think of such things. 

"Forgive me good Rattick," said the Knight, his head bowed, "Though it is true that we have hired you to guide us to the lair of foul Wizard Dimsbury, you have served us true and are a member of this party."

"We brave companions," said the Ranger, "we happy few, each, in our own way, fulfilling a mystical and wondrous destiny. Yes, we are all sorry to have used you so badly faithful Rattick."

Rattick's jaw dropped. Could they be serious? Was it possible that they were they conning him rather than the other way around? He clacked his teeth together and pasted a smile across his sour mouth. "Not at all, good sirs," said Rattick. "We are adventurers! Spirits run high with ones so bold as we." 

"Huzzah!" cried the Knight, as he lifted his heavy blade in the air. 

"Huzzah," cried the Ranger, clanging his blade against sword of the man he was very recently going to run through. 

"Huzzah," giggled the Enchantress, clapping her hands together and sending a tiny fireball up to dance against the blades.

"You gotta be kidding," thought Rattick as he lifted his dagger in half-hearted salute.



A few hours later, they emerged from the forest into a strange clearing and Rattick announced, "This is it."

"What do you mean?" asked the Ranger, "You mean this? It's just a door in the side of a hill." And so it was. A frame and stout oak door had been incongruously installed into the side of a well-grassed mound, perhaps 25 feet high and 50 feet around. In front of the door was a reed mat that read "Go Away."

"You expected a sign?" asked Rattick. 

"Well, I... I don't know what I expected," said the Ranger

"That's why you hired me to be your guide."

"No good fellow," protested the Ranger, "Don't wound me like that. You are no longer hireling, but boon companion, a full member of our brave band."

"Yes, yes," said Rattick, "Let us to it, boon companions" He reached for the door, but before he could open it, the Enchantress interrupted. 

"Stop! We must first seek the supplication of Lauranda. Her blessing will keep us safe during our time of trial." The Knight and the Ranger both drew their swords and knelt. Rattick rolled his eyes. Just get it over with. He didn't know how much more amateur hour he could take. But he consoled himself with the knowledge that it would all be over soon. 

The Enchantress completed her babbling, and they ventured into the Wizard's lair. It did not take long before the companions heard rumblings and gnashings of teeth from the darkness ahead.  Rattick smiled. The Troll was still there and he sounded hungry. "Stay here, faithful companions," he said, playing it for all it is worth, "I will use my mastery of stealth and shadow to scout the way."

He handed his torch to the Ranger. He took two steps forward into the darkness of the cave. With a flourish, he wrapped his cape of faded black around him and disappeared. Rattick heard his boon companions gasp as he disappeared. 

"Oh, he's very good," said the Enchantress.

Rattick was good, but so were his tools. The cape, as mean and worn as it looked, was a powerful magical item. It possessed three properties that Rattick knew of. One, when closed it imposed upon all who saw it a powerful desire to look elsewhere. Two, in anything from darkness to light shadow, it rendered the user invisible. Three, it was an item so enchanted as to be nearly impossible to steal from the rightful owner. Rattick had learned this the hard way, procuring this wonderful item only after killing its previous owner. 

"Be thankful he did not charge us more," muttered the Knight.

Again Rattick smiled at the nothingness of the dark. The bill for Rattick's services was about to come due, and the brave-but-stupid Knight would find it held many hidden charges. Rattick took a few steps around the corner and squatted in the passageway. Faithful companions? How could they fall for that? Rattick wasn't sticking his neck out any farther than he had to. He waited for a time and then unwrapped his cloak, and returned to the pool of torchlight in which his brave, faithful and gulliable companions waited.

As he stepped into the light, he donned an expression of fear. With a skill long practiced, trembled as he spoke. "It is a *Troll* my companions. A creature most large and fearsome. I fear it is more than we can defeat. We should turn back."

"Ha ha ha ha!" laughed the Knight, taking the bait. "A Troll! That is nothing to a Knight of the Yarven Dawn."

"And it is even less to the blessed and Chosen of Azaz," said the Ranger, revealing the strange mark branded on his arm for what felt like the thousandth time. 

Rattick swallowed his disgust and said, "You are so much braver and stronger than I."

The Knight drew his sword and said, "Stay behind me and learn how it is done. Fear not Rattick, for you are in the company of heroes."

"I shall not let you steal the glory!" cried the Ranger as he shouldered the Knight aside. 

Rattick couldn't believe it. The idiots charged! A frontal assault on a Troll? They were so stupid it was a wonder they could remembered to breathe.. 

The Enchantress edged past him, smelling of exotic perfume. "I will see if I can bind the creature with The Mother's Embrace. Stay behind me and you will be safe."

He followed her swaying hips through through the corridor, for once, grateful for torchlight There was a roar and the stench of something awful. Rattick knew this to be the Troll's breath. Nothing smells worse than rotting flesh trapped between teeth.

When she saw the Troll the Enchantress raised her arms and began casting a spell. As her hands wove their intricate the pattern, Rattick slid his knife across her perfect, white throat. She gasped as her life's blood poured down her neck, over the the exquisite Ruby necklace and into the deep valley of her heaving breasts. Before she could make another sound, Rattick covered her and dragged her into the darkness. 

She whimpered softly and grew weak. Rattick set her against the wall and removed his hand from her face. When he lifted her chin and she mouthed the word, "Why?" Rattick bent down and kissed the dying woman on the lips. Her eyes fluttered as her life left the husk of her body. 

Rattick tore the necklace from her throat. Then he wiped the blood from it with a black silk handkerchief. In the distance, the screams of one the Chosen Ones ended in a terrible, squishy, bone-crunching noise.

Staring into the glittering facets of the Ruby, Rattick answered the dead woman. "Why? Because it was a kindness. Because there are worse things in the depths of this dungeon than you can imagine. Because this is what happens when you choose to play a dangerous game. All of those are close, but if you really want the truth of it". He looked away from his prize and saw that she was dead. "Because I can."


# 2

Rattick threw the necklace on the oak counter and watched the light dance in it like a living thing. He nodded at it and asked, "Have you ever seen such exquisite workmanship?"

Boltac, the merchant on the other side of the counter, picked up the Ruby Necklace and examined it closely. He gave Rattick a hard look. Boltac's eyes were sharp points swathed in a soft round face. As he edged into middle age, it seemed that only his strong jaw saved his countenance from sloughing down his neck into flabbiness.

After careful consideration, Boltac licked his thumb, rubbed the necklace's setting and muttering, "you missed a spot."

"Missed a spot?" asked Rattick, as smooth as water over river rock. 

"Blood, Rattick. There's some blood left on this necklace."

Rattick shrugged. "Probably mine. I try to use stealth, but the Orc I took it from put up quite a fight."

"En-henh," Boltac said as ran his hand across his shaven pate, "Not that I want to know, but what is an Orc?"

"A fearsome new creature wreaking havoc on the good people of Robrecht."

"En-henh," said Boltac, not buying it, "And, you uh, count yourself among those good people?" 

"Of course. I am no mighty hero, like some, but I do the small part that I can."

"Okay, Rattick, I'm gonna make you an offer on your necklace here. The setting is crap, but the stone is very nice. But before I do, not for nuttin' but Orcs? You're shittin' me right?"

"Oh no, stout merchant, I assure you, Orcs are very real."

"Really? Kobolds, I heard of. Trolls, I heard of. Dragons, sure, but Orcs? C'mon. What does an Orc look like?"

"Gentle Merchant, I hope that you never see one, but I assure you, if you do, you will know for the Orc that it is."

"En-henh,"

"Let me tell you the fearsome tale of how I came to acquire this necklace and then perhaps you will better understand the threat that the fearsome Orc--"

"You can spare me the story, Rattick," said Boltac.

"You don't enjoy tales of valor?" asked Rattick with a smile.

"Tales of Valor? No. I enjoy tales of profit."

"I don't know any sagas that involve tales of profit," said Rattick, "But tales of valor, of great daring... The bards sing many songs of those."

"Yeah, I don't really care for singing either. In fact, let's just cut all the bullshit. I'm pretty sure I know how you got this."

"Yessssss," purred Rattick, running his finger over the Ruby, "but do you care?"

"Not if you'll take 15 gold for it I don't."

"15 gold? I risked my neck for this!""

"You? I'm pretty sure *you* risked somebody else's neck for this particular bauble. Fine, 17 for the gem, and 2 gold for the rest of it." Boltac said, indicating the pile of equipment on the floor. 

"But this sword almost defeated a troll!"

"Yeah, and it almost doesn't have that huge nick in it. And why does everything in that pile smell like Troll shit?"

They haggled like this for a while, and settled on a price of 22 gold for the lot. When Rattick left, Boltac muttered a curse and had to work to keep from spitting on his own floor. 

He placed the Ruby in one of three lockboxes behind the counter and then dragged the bundle of equipment into the back to see how badly he had been taken. The sword was higher quality than he had hoped for, and there were a number of items that, while they wouldn't fetch top price, would provide good use. The odd piece of armor, some leather goods. He threw out a badly damaged boot and was debating about opening a nondescript fabric sack. Sacks could be trouble. For that matter so could gems. 

He grunted as he stood up. He trudged wearily back to the front of the store. From beneath the counter, he produced a brass-tipped wand that was clipped to the underside of the thick oak. He took the wand to the back and guided it carefully over all the items. 

The wand did not grow warm or shriek or vibrate or do any of the many colorful and destructive things it did in the presence of magic. The wand was not merely a magic wand. It was a magic *detecting* wand. Very rare, very expensive. But, for a man who dealt in items of unknown origins purchased from characters of questionable virtue, it was indispensable. 

"Ennh," grunted Boltac, more relieved than disappointed. Boltac hated magic. It wasn't just dangerous, it was also bad for business. When a customer couldn't try on a pair of gloves for fear that they would turn out to be MaGrief's Gauntlets of Self-Abuse, business suffered. 

That's why he kept the wand secreted under his the counter. Pick up a cursed Ruby Necklace and there was no telling what might happen. Before he had procured his wand, Boltac had spent six months with a cursed Goblet of Thirst stuck to his hand. As annoying as that was, that wasn't the worst part of the curse. When liquid was poured into the the Goblet, it heated and burned the hand that held it.

He rubbed the scarred flesh of his left hand. Ugh, magic. It seemed like it should be useful, but its power always seemed to go awry. Maybe it was fate. Maybe it was karma. Maybe it was that Wizards enjoyed a particularly cruel and ironic sense of humor. Whatever it the reason, Boltac was certain that the world would be better off without magic. But there was nothing to be done about it. People may revile a merchant, but in the end, a merchant can only sell what the buyers want. 

He pulled on a stout thong he wore around his neck and with a jingling, a cluster of charms, tokens and amulets emerged from beneath his tunic. He pawed at them for a while until he he came to an odd one cast in bronze. It was a small statue of one bull mounting another. The customary token of Dallios, Lord of the Deal. Dallios was a Southern god, little known in cold Robrecht, but when it came to religions, Boltac didn't discriminate. Boltac was a superstitious man, but he prided himself on being able to make a deal with anybody. 

He kissed the Bull with Two Backs and muttered a prayer of thanks to Dallios that, this time at least, he hadn't been the bull on the bottom.

Just then the front door clattered against its crude copper bell. A customer! The Lord of the Deal smiled on Boltac today, and hurried to see what fresh profit Dallios had seen fit to bring him. 


# 3

At the front of the store, Boltac found a strapping young lad, farm boy no doubt, staring at a rack of swords with an open mouth. The boy was so entranced by the cold and lethal steel on the wall that he didn't even turn when Boltac entered the room. Boltac steped behind the counter like a Captain stepping on the deck of his ship. "Can I help you?"

"I need a sword," said the farm boy, his eyes not leaving the weaponry. 

"Then you have come to right place. Welcome, my young friend, to Boltac's General Store and Dungeon Outfittery. We have everything that a strapping young adventurer like yourself could need to loot your way to fame and glory."

"We?" asked the lad, with the kind of innocence that can only come from hard work, clean living and getting kicked in the head by livestock. 

"Yes, the Royal We, or, in this case, the Shopkeeper's We."

"But there is only one of you?"

"Yes, but I am so eager to help you, I will work as hard as two men. Now, what's the story? Who you gotta stab? Who you gonna loot?"

"No," said the Farm Boy as he hung his head in embarrassment, "It's not like that. I don't want to loot anybody. I… I just have to… I mean, I am about to embark on an adventure of high purpose and consequence." With this last phrase, Boltac's hopes rose. Maybe the kid was a little slow, but those fancy words sounded like money to Boltac. He smiled like a fleshy shark.

"My friend, you have come to the right place. High purpose and consequence is what we are all about at Boltac's. Why the Duke of Robrecht himself has granted me my license to purvey. He has an eye to quality, his Dukeship does, and his warrant of commerce personally guarantees that this," he indicated his dark, dusty store with an expansive gesture of his hands, "Is the finest merchandise you can buy in town of Robrecht."

"But, yours is the only store in the Duke allows in the town of Robrecht."

"Yes, I see that you are a quick study," said Boltac, directing the young man back through the shelves. "I invite you to direct your keen wit towards my wares. Here we have an assortment of torches and oil-bearing devices. If you notice this one -- with the curved blade on the handle -- particularly good if you are surprised coming around a corner."

Boltac turned the Farm Boy sharply and indicated a floor-to-ceiling rack of glass bottles, "Here, of course, we have our major and minor healing potions -- antidotes, ointments and ungents of all kinds. A must for any prudent adventurer. These potions are brewed by the finest Mercian apothecaries and brought in by mule train once a moon."

Moving right along, Boltac directed his young shopper towards the racks in the back, "And here is the Armor. A must for all but barbarians and the most self-confident magic workers. You aren't a magic worker are you?"

"I don't think so," said the lad, a little overwhelmed by how fast this was all coming at him. 

"Perfect, then you have your choice of chain mail, splint mail, ring mail, plate mail, plate armor and  -- far less protection but the girls love it -- leather armor. Feel that? Very supple."

"But what I need is a sword," protested the Farm Boy.

"En-henh," said Boltac, "Which brings us to back to lighting. A question of prominent importance to any adventurer."

The Farm Boy looked longingly back at the swords.

"I know, I know," continued Boltac. "You think the thing with the pointy end is the most important bit of gear you can buy."

"A hero's life depends on the strength of his blade." 

"Sometimes. But there are two things, I can *guarantee* you are going to need. 1) Water. 2) Light."

"What about food?"

"Eh, you can live for days without food. A strong lad like you could eat what he kills, but without water… not so much. And the dark. Are you comfortable in the dark?"

"I have walked this land at night since I was a small child."

"And now that you're a big child… I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm just having fun. My point here is, you know what lives far, far underground, in the darkness?"

"I do not, but I am ready to boldly face the unknown."

"Ennn-henh. You got no idea. For that matter, neither do I. But what I *do* know is that whatever horrible underground thing you mean to bash to a pulp in the name of your personal fame or fortune, you can bet that, *it* can see in the dark."

The Farm Boy stood there with a brave, yet stupid look on his face.

"And you know what can't see in the dark?"

"Uh…"

"You. You can't see in the dark. Can you?"

"No."

"Then trust me, you pain-in-the-ass, take a lantern. In fact, take two and some torches, just in case."

"What about that one," the Farm Boy asked, pointing to a lamp that hung on its own peg high on the wall. 

"Oh, that, you have a very good eye, my friend. That is the magic lantern of Lamptopolis. It cannot be broken and it never goes out as long as it's carried."

"Lamptopolis?" asked the Farm Boy.

"Okay, you caught me, I made it up. But it's a lantern and it's clearly magic."

"It's beautiful. How does it work?"

"It's magic. That's how it works. Some kinda glowing crystal in the center there. You pick it up it turns on. But trust me, it can't be broken."

"How do you know that?"

"Ennh, you've never had apprentices have you? Third rule of shopkeeping: If a thing can't be broken by an apprentice, it can't broken. Now lemme see here. It's got an inscription on it…"

Boltac wrangled a stepladder over to the wall and lifted the lamp from its resting place. As soon as he put a hand on its handle the crystal in the center of the lamp flickered to life. "Yeah," Boltac said, rubbing the dust from the letters that were cut into the bottom of the lantern's base. "It says, 'burns with the flame of a true heart. We'll, it's not much of a flame, is it? But at least you don't have to carry oil for it."

He handed the lantern to the Farm Boy. As soon as the boy touched the handle, the lantern blazed with a brilliant light so bright, Boltac realized it had been a long, long time since he had cleaned the store. Then he closed his eyes to stop the pain.

"Wow," said the Farm Boy. 

"Give me that," snapped Boltac, snatching the lantern from the boy's hand. The lamplight returned to a dull flicker. 

"How much is it?"

"More than you can afford," Boltac grumbled as he hung the lantern back on the peg.

"That's okay," said the Farm Boy in a fresh-faced and agreeable way that made Boltac hate him all the more, "what I really need is a sword." 

"Maybe you do and maybe you don't. Keep an open mind for me. We've got Pikes, Bows, Warhammers, Battle Axes, Halberds, Flails, Morningstars, Maces and the largest selection of Fine Daggers this side of the mountains."

"I don't want a mace. I want a sword."

"Of course you do. And once again, Boltac's has you covered! We've got short swords, long swords, broadswords, rapiers, cutlasses, sabers, scimitars, shishkas, and slabas -- and I did I mention the finest selection of daggers of quality, this side of the mountains. While it's true that most of our blades have never been tested in battle, this is in keeping with our philosophy of passing the savings and the glory on to you."

"Well, uh, I'm afraid..."

"Afraid? A big strapping lad like you? Don't be ridiculous. Why, after you've been properly outfitted by Uncle Boltac, you'll have nothing to fear in this world. You'll be able to take on a Dragon with one hand and an OwlBear with the other. And therein lies the value of quality equipment."

"No, it's just that, I'm afraid that those beautiful swords," his eyes grew wide as he looked at them, "are all too expensive for me." 

The smile drained from Boltac's face, but he continued as if he hadn't just been kicked in the wallet. "Don't be silly. At Boltac's we have equipment to fit every budget." He kicked a bucket of swords that sat next the counter. "Have a look at our discount bucket."

The Farm Boy pulled a sword from the bucket and then dropped it back in quickly. "This sword still has blood on it!"

"That's how you know that it works! A gold piece gets you the pick of the barrel."

"A gold piece?" said the lad, looking concerned. 

"Well," said Boltac, who was starting to get a very bad feeling about the entire transaction, "At Boltac's there's always room to negotiate. But try a few, see how you like the balance, and whatnot."
 
"I've been trying to save money to buy a sword, sir. Scrounging for herbs, seeing if anyone needs rats killed. But no one needs rats killed. And the countryside is bare for miles around…" He trailed off.

Boltac nodded understandingly. The only vermin that plagued Robrecht was an infestation of down-on-their luck adventurers. "I understand how it is. And how much did you say you have you been able to save?"

"Not enough, I'm afraid. So I was wondering if I could rent a sword."

"RENT A SWORD?" Boltac shouted. "Do you not see the sign?" he asked pointing at the sign which clearly read "All Sales Final."

"I can't read, sir."

"Oh, of course not."

"Please sir, it's so I can rescue the love of my life. She was taken, you see. Abducted by scoundrels."

"Oh well, that changes everything," said Boltac, as his face grew hard. "Tell me more," he asked, as if it was a dare.

"Well sir, she is a priestess of Dar. And, well,"

"Aren't they supposed to be virgins? Those priestesses of Dar."

The young man blushed and said, "It's more of a suggestion, than a rule, sir. If you know what I mean," his face grew serious, "but if it helps, I was a virgin, if you catch my drift."

"Help? How would that help?"

"She's gone and got herself into trouble. I've gotten word from a friend that she's being held in a tower and requires a hero to rescue her."

"So what's keeping this broad from walking outta that tower herself?"

"Broad? Sir, you speak of the love of my life--"

"No offense, but you're life hasn't been that long yet."

"--and she's been placed at the top of the tower and sleeps a deathless sleep under an evil spell."

"En-henh. That's a Sleeping Beauty, kid" Boltac said. He was about to explain that the Sleeping Beauty was the name of con game, popular among some of Robrecht's less-than-upstanding citizens, whereby a young man was seduced, lured into a trap and relieved of any valuable items he might have. Like, for instance, a borrowed sword. But the Farm Boy had bolted from the barn and Boltac could see that there was no catching him. 

"Yes, she is a *real* beauty, sir. Asleep or awake. I knew you would understand. So, if I had a sword, I could go and rescue her. And there would certainly be treasure after I defeated the the monsters that have been set to protect her from all the but the bravest and most faithful hero. Understand, I have no care for this treasure. Only my lady love. So all the valuables would be yours. All that for loaning me a sword." 

Boltac winced under the onslaught of the boy's sincerity. "But just a sword? I mean, would armor would help too?"

"Yes, it would, but…"

"And some healing potions, you know, just to be safe."

"Well, of course, but"

"And perhaps a flying steed. White, with large flapping wings."

"You have a flying steed?" the boy asked in awe. 

"Even if I did, you couldn't afford it."

"But, we're talking about a loan."

"No, *you're* talking about a loan. I'm sorry, you're just gonna have to find yourself another Priestess of Eternally Questionable Virtue, kid."

"Look, I'm not asking for armor or a flying horse, I'm just asking to borrow a sword."

Boltac looked the boy dead in the eyes and said, "I'm not giving you any discounts."

"It's not a discount. It's a loan."

"It's the worst kind of discount. It's a 100% discount!"

"But I'd bring it back. Maybe with a few nicks, but definitely covered in glory."

"Oh Glory is it? Would that enhance the retail value?"

"Yes, yes," he said eagerly, unaware of the trap he was falling into.

"Because you are such a great fighter."

"Yes, that's it."

"Powerful, strong," Boltac prompted.

"Yes."

"Ready for danger from any quarter."

"I might not look like much, sir, but I'll be a mighty hero yet."

"All you need is a sword? Is that right?"

"Yes, please, Sir. Please. Haven't you ever been young and in love?"

Boltac's face soured. "I was never young.

"Look, kid, I'm not going to loan you a sword. But I do have an old mace I keep behind the counter, you know, in case of trouble. It's not much to look at, but it's always been lucky for me. I like to think it would be good luck for you. Would you like to see it?"

"Very much."

Boltac lifted the mace up from behind the counter. As he raised the weapon high in the air, the lad's trusting, cow-like eyes followed it, studying every detail of the well-worn wood, the wrapped leather handle, and the business end studded with heavy iron nails. Boltac saw the lad move from disappointment to hope. "Yes," his eyes seemed to say, "a mace. I could do it with a mace."

Boltac hit him right between the eyes, and knocked him out cold.

-
# 4

In the center of Robrecht, there was a river. In the center of this river was an island. And at the center of this island was a very damp castle. And in the very damp center of this very damp castle was a Duke on a throne. Both of which were also damp. And one of them was terribly bored.

The Duke started what would have been a mighty yawn, but he quickly worked to stifle it. This resulted in one of his eyes closing and his mouth attempting to wrap itself around his strong nose. When his face was not in spasm, the Duke's came close enough to being noble. He had a fine, drawn face, thick dark hair and a nose well-suited for looking down at people. But if you looked in his eyes, the effect of a cruel Mercian conquerer would have been spoiled. With more force of personality, his eyes might have been piercing. But alas, from the loins of the most powerful empire on earth had sprung another stuffed personage. 

He was yawning because he was holding court. Well, such as court as could be held in the remote and unimpressive Dutchy of Robrecht to which he had been consigned. There were no glittering courtiers here, there were no ladies-in-waiting, there was just the Duke, an uncomfortable wooden chair and a long line of disputes that the Duke was expected to settle before he would be allowed to go to his supper. 

"Messers Rudolph and Fuad, herders of goats!" the Chamberlain announced. The Duke waved his hand and the men were brought before him.

"He had advantage of my goat, sire. And I desire compensation," said a cross-eyed man as he glared in the general direction of the man standing next to him. The Duke turned his gaze at the accused, a man who was wearing a goat-skin helmet. Was the helmet this man's idea of formal dress, the Duke wondered? The Duke opened his mouth to ask, but then thought better of it. He squinted at the man and tried to figure the matter on his own. 

The pause stretched to a such a length that the Chamberlain gently prompted, "Sire?"

"Advantage?" asked the Duke, unable, with his formal, courtly upbringing, to understand how having a goat might be an advantage. It was not that there were no goats in the Mercian Empire. It was that his entire life had been carefully constructed to insulate him from all creatures that were shaggy and uncultured.

"He had knowledge of my best NannyGoat."

"Knowledge? I don't understand, of course he has knowledge of your animal," the Duke said, glancing at the dull-eyed, leather-helmeted man who was being accused of bestiality, "He is a fellow-goatherd, is he not?"

"No my lord," said the cross-eyed man, blushing with the weight of what he must now make painfully obvious. "He..." and then he thrust his pelvis forward and backwards in an unmistakable, rhythmic motion. 

"Oh. Oh? OH!" said the Duke, as the facts of the case came into disgusting focus for him. "Really? What was it like?" asked the Duke.

The Chamberlain began to cough. This was a prearranged signal between the two of them that the Duke was wandering dangerously off course. The Chamberlain did a lot of coughing in the performance of his duties.

"Very well," the Duke said, "I command you to violate one of *his* sheep."

"WHAT!"

"Yes, yes, my good man, that is justice. He has had one of yours, so," the Duke slapped his knee decisively, "You must have one of his. An eye for an eye and a ewe for a ewe. Yes, that certainly has the ring of justice to it, doesn't it? Symmetry and suchlike." The Duke said, feeling awfully proud of himself. But by the look on the goatherd's face, he could see that his legal acumen was lost on the man. 

The Chamberlain continued to cough. The Duke became worried about how he might talk his way out of his ruling without seeming that he was contradicting himself. The Duke, was aware, vaguely, that he was not the sharpest arrow in the quiver. But he was straight on one point: The only mortal sin a person in power might truly commit was seeming to contradict themselves. 

He couldn't understand where he had gone wrong? What taboo had he crossed? It was a perfectly logical verdict. He was a perfectly logical ruler. And why did rulers have to explain themselves to their subjects anyway? Maybe it was just Dukes. He was pretty sure if he was a King he wouldn't have had to explain himself to anyone. 

Just as he was thinking that, a Wizard appeared in the great hall. And this is not to say he made an entrance. One minute there was an empty space on the cold stone floor and the next, there he stood. Shaven pate, black robes, a large silver torq worn around his neck, only slightly larger than the dark circles under his eyes, strange stains underneath his fingernails -- yes, unmistakably a Wizard. One moment he wasn't there, and the next, he was. The Wizard Appeared.

There was a gasp as those in the great hall, jumped back from the man who had apparated into their midst. Nonplussed, the Chamberlain said, "A man appearing from nowhere!" 

The Wizard looked at the Chamberlain sharply and hissed, "My name is Alston Dimsbury."

"Dimsbury, A wizard of considerable evil," the Chamberlain said. But the wizard's look darkened and more imaginative people in the crowd believed that they saw flames forming in the Wizard's eyes. 

"…who's reputation is much maligned," the Chamberlain added diplomatically. 

"Yes, enough, that's quite enough," said the Duke. "Wizard, you will simply have to wait your turn."

"Oh," said the Wizard. "I hope this isn't convenient for you. I *am* sorry. Pray, continue with your amusements. My time is of little consequence." He punctuated his sentence with a wave of his hand that turned the cross-eyed goatherd in a rather lovely-looking brown and white nanny goat. This time, even the Chamberlain gasped in fear. 

Fuad, the Goatherd in the leather helmet, smiled at the newly-minted goat with an unwholesome gleam in his eye. As he rubbed his hand along the length of rope that held up his trousers, the Nanny goat gave up a fearful bleat.

Dimsbury said, "As I was saying, don't let me interrupt."

No one spoke. The only sound was the clacks of the goat's hooves as she/he wisely made for the exit as fast as her/his terribly confused legs would carry him/her.

Exasperated that the crowd still wasn't getting the point, Dimsbury said, "What does it take? Must I strike all of you down with a pillar of flame? Gah. Let me outline it for you. I am a *horrible* man. Dimsbury the terrible. Master of the arcane arts and elder mysteries, summoner of demons, so on and so forth. Now, go. Flee."

And flee they did. When the oaken door had slammed behind them, Dimsbury and the Duke were the only people left in Robrecht's meager throne room. 

"There," said the Wizard, "That's better."

"Hullo, Alston, enjoying yourself?" asked the Duke.

"Quite Weeveston. You know how I do like to make an entrance."

"I apologize for my subjects," said the Duke, "they are a bit... provincial."

"Thick is the word I would have used."

"Would you care for some wine," asked the Duke as he draped his leg over the side of his chair and slumped with the false exhaustion that can only come with never having worked a day in your life.

"I want you to *get out*," said the Wizard.

"Uh? Pardon me?"

"I said, get out. Abdicate. Leave this place. And take everyone with you."

"I wish that I could," said the Duke, "I never wanted to come to this damp, grey place to begin with."

"Ah, well there you go," said the Wizard, "I love it when things are easy. Did you say there was wine?"

"Sadly," said the Duke.

"Sadly? I thought you said there was wine?"

"Oh wine? We've got it by the barrelful. And by the bottleful in cabinet over there. Since you've run off all my servants, subjects and goat herders, you will have help yourself. All told this tower and keep contains more wine than I could drink in three lifetimes. Although the prospect of staying here for three lifetimes," the Duke chuckled as he made a slicing motion across his throat.

"I don't think you understand," said Dimsbury, trying to be reasonable, "this is a courtesy call. What I mean to say is that this request is for your benefit, not mine."

"Steady on, old boy," said the Duke. "I'm on your side. I'm ready to do as you command. You want this kingdom -- well this dismal little duchy -- I say you can have it. Good riddance to fickle mountain weather, thick-ankled peasant girls and goat-violators of every shape and stripe. But, here's the thing, I can't. The minute I leave my post, my family will know of it. In particular my Uncle Torvald, do you know my Uncle Torvald?"

"Can't say I have had the pleasure," said Dimsbury, fighting back an urge to engulf the Duke in flames with a clap of his hands. 

"I have the burden of carrying a great name. Weeveston Prestidigitous RampartLion Toroble the 15th, in fact. And this name means that I am not free do what I would like. I am not free to marry who I like. I am not free to live where I like. I have been sent here. And if I abdicate, Torvald Toroble will have me killed. Either by assassin or generalship of an army on its way to a glorious lost cause or perhaps just with a good old-fashioned hunting accident."

"How do you know?" asked Dimsbury, still trying to reason with him. 

"It's how he did my father. Hunting "accident." And when dear old Dad survived that, then Torvalds sent in his very own doctor to poison the man."

"Damn it," cried Dimsbury, "I'm trying very hard not to be the stereotypical Evil Wizard. But you're just not helping. I don't want to be a stereotype. Don't make me be a stereotype."

"I never suggested that you were," said the Duke, with a look of care on his face.

"I could have swept in from the East and just taken that mine and cavern system for myself. Killed all the miners, released horrible creatures into the countryside. Right? Could have done that, couldn't I?"

"Yes, Alston you could have, but I don't feel that you are the kind of --"

"But instead, I bought that mine. Paid gold on the barrel head for it. Didn't I?"

"You did. Please, Alston, what has gotten into you? You are a fine neighbor," said the Duke, trying to tell this powerful and somewhat crazed man what he wanted to hear. 

"Yes, I am," Dimsbury said, calming enough to take a healthy gulp of wine. "I am a fine neighbor, but you, and I mean the royal you, Duke Robrecht, are not."

"Ugh, Robrecht as a name. Why it sounds simply ghastly, doesn't it."

"Your subject are the ghastly bits. Those little people who infest this land. With their grubbing in the dirt and milking of animals."

"Ah, taxpayers," said the Duke, "Yes, my Uncle says I am here to farm them."

"Herd them? Wouldn't herd be the word you're looking for?"

"Yes, I suppose it would. I am to herd them until tax time. And then I shear them and release them back into the fields."

"It's not your sheep that are the problem. Nor your goats. The problem is the relentless press of adventurers seeking to steal what they imagine is the vast repository of treasure stashed in my dungeon."

"You have treasure, Alston? All this time you've been holding out on me?"

"No, no, heavens no. I mean a little *family* money, but nothing to speak of. I am a Wizard, a researcher into the arcane and terrible forces that undergird all of our lives."

"Sounds rather dull to me."

"Well, it's not for everyone, but my work is *important*. Deucedly important. So much so that I've nearly isolated the source of all magic in this plane of existence."

"Plane of existence?" asked the Duke, wrinkling his face in confusion.

"Sorry, sorry, don't mean to trouble you with technical terms. The thing is, If I can harness this source, tap into and control the very essence, why I would be the most powerful and accomplished Mage in the history of the world."

"Prize for that is there?"

"No, Weeveston, there is not. Power is its own reward."

"Ah, yes, well, you'd have to talk to my Uncle about that."

"But not on a hunting trip?"

"Oh, ho ho, quite so. Quite so."

"The point is, I keep getting interrupted in my work, by these blasted adventurers. I can't get anything done. And it's your fault."

"My fault?"

"Yes, the endless stream of mendicants, adventurers and ne'er do wells who seek to kill me and deprive me of property. To become rich heroes by defeating the Evil Wizard, that's what they want!" Here Dimsbury grew less sure of himself, "I'm not an *evil* wizard, am I Weeeveston? I try not to be, but some days, God I just don't know."

"No, of course you are not an Evil Wizard. I've known you since grammar school. A touch mischievous, perhaps. But Evil? No."

"Oh, thank you for saying so. I do appreciate your honesty," said Dimsbury. "At first, I thought the adventurers would stop coming. You know, after most of the first few waves of looters fell into my traps or afoul of my pets. But their failure dissuaded no one. They doubled their efforts. And then redoubled them after that!

"Most died on the upper levels, but the few that managed to penetrate deeper into my stronghold, they've caused real damage. So I have been forced to turn away from my important work to employ spies and turncoats, fashion ever more diabolical traps and oversee the painful logistics of force management and deployment. I don't want any of this. It's a constant strain and a distraction from my work. I tell you Weeveston, I am close to a deeper knowledge and understanding of the forces that shape our world than any man has ever had before."

The Duke fixed the Wizard with a look and said, "I know what force shapes our world, and sadly, it is heredity."

But the Wizard was on a roll. "And the power! The limitless power. It should be *I* that make this connection with the source. Lest this power fall into the hands of some truly EVIL wizard. So I'm afraid you simply must go. There's no other way I can see it."

The Duke smiled with regret, "I would like nothing better than to comply with your wishes, old friend. But my Uncle would have me killed. Even if I did leave, it would do you no good, he would come in force and just take the Kingdom back. And it's not like it would solve your problem. I mean I can't very well take the sheep with me. Or stop members of the herd from seeking you out and troubling your in your research."

 "Yes, Weeveston, I suppose your right. I just -- you know, the long hours of study, the feeling of limitless power at one's finger tips. I just thought there must be some way to solve this problem."

"Of course, old boy. Perfectly understandable. Perhaps I could lend you some of my guards, to help ease the burden. But heavens knows my Uncle leaves me precious little enough to staff an army. Really more of a garrison. A bunch of drunks in helmets, honestly."

"Yes, I know, we all have our problems. I'm sorry Weeveston, I've been an ass. I've barged in unannounced, I've hit your man with Tilhphad's spell of Transformation. Threatened you with ultimatums. I swear Weeveston, on my mother's grave, the soil of which is indispensable for the making of certain potions, I never wanted to be an *Evil* Wizard. A screeching, fire-throwing caricature of myself. But the world... the world will simply drive a man to it."

"Ah, hmm, yes." said the Duke. "You should meet my Aunt Etheline."

"Torvald's wife?"

"Oh no, he had her killed long ago. Needlepoint 'accident.' He has something of a penchant for killing relatives. No Etheline is his sister. And compared to him *she* is the *ruthless* one."

"Well, that makes me feel better."

"Better?"

"Yes, I would never do such a thing to my own family."

"Your extended family doesn't own and fight over estates and dominions that cover nearly a third of the known world."

"Perhaps you have a point. But *I* would draw the line at assassinating my own family."

"I do as well," said the Duke with an air of resignation, "But only because I don't have the talent to get away with it." 

Dimsbury frowned. "Oh and I should mention, I've dispatched a raiding party."

"Raiding party, well that doesn't sound so bad. I mean, it's understandable in a fit of temper and all. "

"Of Orcs," said Dimsbury

"Horcs? What are those?"

"They ride wolves, Weeveston. Wolves."

"Well whatever they are, they can't be very large if they are riding wolves."

"They are very large wolves."

"Yes, but what is a Horc?"

"No, no, good fellow, an Orc. No 'h'. They are my latest work. Terrible, terribly murderously bloodthirsty creatures. Stronger and faster than a man. Some cultivars have tusks, other do not. They all have greyish-green skin, almost impervious to weapons -- if not for the constant interruptions I would have gotten that bit right.

"Look, it's important that you know how badly I feel about this. Wiping out your entire Kingdom--" at the sound of the world Kingdom, the Duke flinched. "Oh, sorry, sorry, Duchy. Very sorry about that, didn't mean to rub it in.

"Anyway, I feel terrible about all of this old boy, really I do, but it seems the only way to get the peace in which I need to work."

"Well, I understand, you were upset, but it's just a raiding party. Probably do the old town some good. A little raiding. Till up the soil, attract more adventurers. Rallying to the cry of defend good ol' Robrecht!"

"No, no that's not the point. You see, old boy, I mean to drive you out. Work salt into the earth so nothing will ever grow here again."

"Wait, how many people in this raiding party? I mean how many of these Horks?"

"Orcs"

"…do you have?"

"Oh, a few thousand, by now I should say!"

"Oh, well, why didn't you say so?" exclaimed the Duke, breaking out into a smile.

"What difference does it make?"

"Well if it was two dozen or so, it would be a mere raiding party. But a thousand, perhaps two. Yes, two thousand?"

"I'm a wizard," said the Wizard, "Just not with numbers."

"Well, a quick look at the treasury will reveal that neither am I. But, anything over 500 is clearly an army, right?"

"So?"

"Well, I wouldn't have abdicated, you see. I would have been INVADED!"

"Yes."

"Well, for me it's no problem. I just slip away into the night. The warmth of exile in the Southern Kingdoms and the embrace of my wife --"

"Weeveston, you married?"

"Oh, yes, for ages now. Arranged, but she is pleasant enough, as wives go. But she took one look at this damp tower and left me. She repaired to her father's estates in the south. Something about mold growing in her hair.

"But never mind that now. You have released me old friend. You have released me! I will instruct my household to pack at once."

"Probably for the best. The Orcs should descend on the town shortly after midnight."

"Oh, how very gruesome and terrifying."

"Yes, I thought it a nice touch."

"The only thing old boy," the Duke said, the smile dropping from his face, "Is my Uncle. He will take it hard. He will come for revenge."

"No worries, Weeveston. I can handle your Uncle Torvalds."

"I wish you would."

"As a favor to you, I am happy to do it," said the Wizard. Then he said, "Bon Voyage!" gave a half-bow, and, in the way of Wizards, disappeared in puff of smoke. 


He appeared, quietly, with no smoke or fanfare, in the shadows of a warehouse building along the River Swift. That had gone surprisingly well, thought Dimsbury. It would have pained him to have killed his old grammar school mate Weeveston. Not much, but it is worth something to avoid even a momentary pang. To attack the city without resistance, well, that would mean his magnificent Orcs would not have their numbers greatly reduced by tonight's adventure. Pleased with himself, Dimsbury thought of turning his sights on the wider world. 

Ah, but ambition would wait until he had isolated the very source of magic. And this attack would grant him the peace and quiet in which he needed to work. One good long push at the end, and he felt confident he would have it within his grasp. Everything, really. For who could resist a man with limitless power?

But tonight. A respite from his labors. His feet carried him south. He knew of a place -- not the finest establishment, or even reputable by the standards of a privileged Mercian upbringing, it is true --- but as he had been living on things grown in a cave, it would do. 

Yes, a fine roast leg of lamb. Then a pleasant walk to a hilltop from which to watch the city burn. The only thing he regretted was that je would not have good company to enjoy such a delightful evening with. The sacrifices he made for his work were many. 


# 5

Boltac dragged the unconscious Farm Boy out of his shop. He looked around for a place to ditch the kid. Across the street he saw an empty bench in front of the Bent Eelpout Tavern. Perfect, thought Boltac. He'll be just another drunk on a bench, sleeping it off.

As he dragged the lad across the street, Boltac muttered to himself, "What were you thinking? Loan you a sword? Are you crazy? Well, of course you're crazy. Forget I asked." With much grunting, Boltac propped the lad up on the bench. He looked up at the hideous, twisted fish on the Tavern's faded sign and a longing for ale filled him. 

"Look kid," he said to the gently snoring Farm Boy on the bench, "It's for your own good. I mean, if you didn't see that coming, you're not going to see anything else coming. And that wasn't even tricky. You know what's tricky? Adventures are tricky." Boltac sighed heavily. "Believe me, go back to the farm."

Boltac watched the sleeping boy for a moment. Unconscious he seemed even younger. "Okay, no charge for the concussion. And you're welcome," Boltac said. Then he went inside.


"Asarah, my love!" Boltac bellowed before the door had even had a chance to close behind him, "I have come to rescue from all of this."

The hurried, hard-working, yet beautiful mistress of the Inn, turned away from a table she was clearing. She flung a lock of dark hair out of her face and saw that it was Boltac. Her professional smile fell from her face and she asked, "And who's going to rescue you?"

Boltac climbed up on a bar stool and said, "No, no. I mean it this time. I have come to sweep you away from all this pointless drudgery. We shall journey to a far kingdom where I am Lord and Master and you will be my Queen."

Asarah walked behind the bar and set her hands on the well-worn wooden top. "Whattya want Boltac?"

Eying the beautiful, dark-haired woman before him, Boltac had the courage to tell the truth because it would play as a joke. "Only you my love."

"Yeah, well, all you've got is money, Boltac. And I ain't for sale. Now what are you having?"

"Asarah, can I borrow an ale?"

"What? Borrow an ale?"

"My point exactly!"

"Borrow?"

"Yes."

"Who asks such a thing?"

"Exactly!" said Boltac, pounding his fist on the bar. "Who asks such a thing? But people do. I swear to the gods they do. A young man, not 20 minutes ago, walked into my store and had the nerve to ask me if he could borrow a sword."

"What? You mean like you'd ask a neighbor to borrow a cup of sugar?"

"Yes, exactly. Except when you borrow a cup of sugar, you don't go off and use it to get yourself killed trying to save some damn fool... Priestess of Dar." 

"Oh, virgin love," she said as a mooney look crept into her eye.

"En-henh," said Boltac. "How about I just rent an ale?"

"Comin' right up." Asarah poured a tankard of ale out of the keg and set it on the bar in front of Boltac. Then she asked, "So, did you loan him the sword?"

"No," snapped Boltac, beer flying from his lips as his blissful first sip was interrupted by the memory of the recent inanity. "I hit him over the head with a club, dragged him across the street and left him unconscious on the bench out front."

Asarahs eyes grew dark with anger. "How *could* you?" 

"It was easy, actually, I just took my... Look, woman, When you pick up a sword you pick up a lot of other things with it. And if the lad wasn't ready to deal with the ambush of a shopkeeper with a trick knee, then he certainly wasn't ready to deal with whatever dangerous and vile thing he meant to bash in the head of to preserve the honor of his wench."

"That word again. Wench. I thought you said she was a priestess?"

"Oh come on, it was a Sleeping Beauty. They were roping him."

"You don't know that. It could have been true love. True romantic love. The kind that you only hear about in songs."

"Yeah, you only hear about it in the songs, because ain't real."

"You're heart is only filled with money," said Asarah. "Money and mistrust."

"No," said Boltac, "It's not full. There's room for more money." Asarah rolled her eyes. "Besides, that's not the point. It's not about my heart. My head is filled  with common sense. Say he's not being conned -- Which is unlikely, but what the hell -- so I give him the sword and he goes and gets himself killed. Enh, then that's on me and for what?"

"But that's how she will know. The only way she can know!"

"Know what, he's an idiot?"

"The girl, she's in danger right?"

"I think it was something more along the lines of a fight for her honor, but sure, let's say she's in danger."

"Danger. She's been kidnapped, let's say. And she's being held captive at the bottom of horrible dungeon."

"Certainly are plenty of horrible dungeons around Robrecht," said Boltac, looking around the room for another subject. 

"It's so romantic. And he goes to rescue her and when he *does* rescue her that's how she *knows*."

"Eeeeyeah. You keep saying that. Knows what?"

"That he *loves* her. When he risks everything he has, when she sees that he's willing to give it all up, that's how she will know he really, truly loves her above all others."

"That's how she'll know he's a muscle-headed idiot who's good with a sword."

"But he can't because some fat, greedy merchant wouldn't loan him a sword."

"No," said Boltac, struggling with his anger, "I could loan him a sword and armor and everything else in my store, and it wouldn't make a difference. He can't because he DOESN'T KNOW HOW TO USE A SWORD!"

"Keep your voice down," hissed Asarah. "You're disturbing the other patrons!"

"Patron," quipped Boltac as he gesturing at the nearly empty common room with his empty tankard.

Asarah slammed another ale down in front of him and said. "There's no romance in your life. No passion. No wonder you are alone. I feel sorry for you Boltac." And then she stormed off into the back. 

"Safer that way," Boltac muttered into his beer. 

Behind Boltac the door opened and a unseasonably cool wind filled the inn. A man in a black robe who wore a simple silver torc around his neck, seemed to float across the common room as the door shut behind him. He took in the room with a raised eyebrow of disapproval then made his way to the bar. He sat and asked Boltac, "Do they have lamb tonight?"

"They usually do."

"Hmm, good. Good."

"So stranger, what business brings you to our fair city?" asked Boltac.

"Hmm, city?" asked the man, with shake of his head, "Ashtantis, that's a city. Squalipoor, Yorn, those are cities. This is a fish-drying village with delusions of grandeur."

"More like delusions of glory," said Boltac as he raised his ale, not sure he liked the other man's tone. "You have traveled then, a trader?" asked Boltac, sniffing around for a profit. 

"More of a wandering scholar," said the man.

"What have you learned here?" Boltac asked, sure that the man wasn't a scholar, but playing along anyway. 

"I have learned that this dismal little inn serves the finest leg of lamb I have ever had."

On cue, Asarah emerged from the kitchen and gave Boltac a withering glare.

"You should tell her that," Boltac said. Asarah noticed the new customer at the bar and replaced her frown with a smile. 

"Madame, I have traveled many miles today, and all of them were in anticipation of the meal I hope to have at your establishment. Please, tell me you have made your incomparable lamb this evening."

Asarah's smile widened into one of true pleasure. She blushed and curtsied. "Well, I don't know about incomparable, but we do have roasted lamb tonight."

"A leg if you please," said the man in black robes, "And an ale."

"Of course, it's a pleasure to serve such a refined customer," Asarah said, and smiled at him in a way that Boltac didn't like. Asarah slid the man his ale and hurried back to the kitchen. 

Boltac called after her. "Make that two." Without looking back Asarah threw him a dismissive wave over her shoulder.

For a moment, both men sat quietly with their ales. The man in black robes staring into space thoughtfully. Boltac staring at the door through which Asarah had just disappeared. The stranger broke the silence first. "What is an Eelpout?" 

"An Eelpout? You don't know what an Eelpout is?"

"I am, as they say, not from around here."

"Eeh, yeah, no doubt. So an Eelpout is, well, imagine an ugly fish."

The man in black's expression did not change. 

"Seriously, envision it in your head."

"I am."

"Oh, well, then it's nowhere near ugly enough. It's so ugly, this Eelpout, that to think of it is to -- "

"I have seen a great many ugly things," said the man in a way that indicated that he, the far worldlier man, was growing tired of this exchange. 

"But you've never seen an Eelpout, is what I'm saying."

"No."

"Ugliest Godsdamned fish in the world."

"And bent?"

"Drunk, I'd guess. Probably nothing uglier in the universe than an Eelpout on a bender."

"Then why would one name an establishment after such a creature?"

"No idea," said Boltac. "Mystery of it all."

"Ah, mystery."

Asarah left the kitchen with a well-ladened tray. She threw another high-powered smile at the stranger as she slid a steaming trencher of lamb in front of him. "Your dinner, sir." When she turned to face Boltac, the smile slipped from her face. She slapped the plate in front of him, and delicious, savory lamb juice splattered the front of Boltac's tunic. She turned and walked away without saying a word. 

The stranger swallowed his first bite and sighed with true contentment. "The only true mystery, is why someone doesn't take such a talented creature away from all this."

Boltac's eyebrows lifted and only his mouth moved as he asked, "In the gentle words of the virgin Priestesses of Dar, come again?"

"Oh, nothing. It's just, such a rare creature. Such a rare talent. I wonder why she stays in this... squalor."

"Squalor? Buddy, I'm eatin' here."

"Oh, I meant no offense. It is what you are *used* to after all."

"Eh, her husband owned this inn. He died and that's her hand of cards."

"Hmm," the stranger grunted, as he tucked into his dinner in earnest.

"So, uh, while we're asking questions, what's with the dismal garb, friend? If you are in the market for some more impressive garments, I have a fine store but a few steps away."

"Ah, yes. A merchant. You would be. And as for the dismal garb, I prefer the term humble. I am a, uh, wandering scholar, in search of knowledge."
 
"Knowledge, here's something you can always count on -- Don't take any wooden nickels," Boltac said, trying to lighten the mood. 

"What's a nickel?"

"You don't know what a nickel is? Not much of scholar are you?"

"I'm not concerned with insignificant matters like trade and commerce."

"Enh, but still. You know, clothes make the man."

"Ability makes the man."

"Yeah, that too. But nice clothes don't hurt, I'm just saying. My name is Boltac, by the way."

"Dimsbury," the man said, in way that irritated Boltac. A way that implied a title lurking somewhere in the wings. Who was he to put on airs? Here they were, both in The Bent Eelpout, one as good as another. If he was so high and mighty why wasn't he gnawing on mutton at the Duke's table? "Forgive me if I don't shake hands," Dimsbury concluded, sealing Boltac's judgment of him. 

Dimsbury finished the last bite of lamb and threw a gold piece (more than 10 times enough for the bill) on the bar. He said, "See that she gets that, my good man. And ask her to bring me another ale over by the fire. Nothing personal," he said, with a thin-lipped smile, "I have a chill."

As he watched Dimsbury go, Boltac thought, You brought that chill with you, ya rich prick. Then he muttered a prayer to Dallios, "Just get me a chance to negotiate with that guy. He won't feel so high and mighty after that, I promise you." Since there wasn't an offer attached, Dallios didn't hear Boltac's plea. But other, older Gods -- the ones in charge of punishing Hubris -- they heard Boltac loud and clear.

When Asarah returned and saw the coin on the bar she exclaimed, "What a fine gentleman he turned out to be!" She held up the gold piece and marveled at it.

"Oh yeah. Real prince of a guy. He said that's to cover mine too. And he wants another ale over by the fire."

Asarah stabbed him with her eyes, "So nice to have a quality customer for a change." 

Boltac held her gaze without flinching, "I'll get outta your hair."



# 6 -- A Sword, Given -- 982

Boltac slammed the door of the inn behind him. He was angry at Asarah for reasons he didn't fully comprehend. He looked up at the stars. He looked down at the muddy cobbles at his feet. Then he looked across the square to his store. For a time he stood in the middle of square, trapped between Inn and Store. He paced in a circle, not knowing which way to go. But he did not look at the bench where the Farm Boy slept. 

Damn what that woman thought! Her fool ideas of romance and heroism. Damn the world, for that matter. The boy was an idiot and searching for death. No good to no anyone and a great deal of trouble to whomever he meant to poke with whatever sword he could beg, borrow or steal. That was the thing that all the would-be heroes forgot. The people they meant to stab to death in the name of glory thought that they were heroes too. 

In the end, observed Boltac, it wasn't even the heroes that got the worst of it. It was the people in the middle. The shopkeepers, the peasants, the simple folk just trying to get through the day. To make a buck, raise a crop or raise a family. 

This dark line of thinking steeled Boltac's nerve so he could get across the square. But, when the shop door closed behind him, his resolve faltered. He peered through the window at the boy he had knocked unconscious. For a moment, Boltac was worried that he had killed the lad. But then the boy stirred a little in his sleep. 

Boltac remembered when he had been the Farm Boy's age. Young and strong and chained to a store. His father had been fond of saying, "Keep a shop and it will keep you." And so it did, keeping a young boy from doing anything that he might want to do in this world. Keeping him at endless, boring work that served as torture for a young man who craved adventure. 

He did not feel guilty for braining the lad. If it was Adventure the boy was after, he would have to withstand far worse. And if his younger self had appeared by magic before him in his own store Boltac would have done far, far  worse. He would have worn his arm out trying to beat some sense into his former self. 

Why couldn't Asarah see the logic of that? Why did she never approve of any of Boltac's carefully negotiated ways? He craved her affection and approval more than he understood. But it was a thing of which he could not speak. Even to himself.

There was no way to tell a young man of the hazards that awaited him -- of the costs to life and limb and family -- of all the ways of hurt and all the ways those hurts could radiate beyond himself. It was a terrible thing to be a hero. And Boltac wished the pain of it on no one. And on no one's family. 

But there was no way to frame the words, no order to put them in that could make it through a testosterone-addled brain and overcome the lust for glory. If not this priestess con, the lad would find some other cause, or scrape or trouble. At least he wasn't off in search of that terrible Wizard that all of the other 'Adventurers' were always harassing. None of them ever seemed to come back. Who knew, maybe that meant the Wizard was real and terrible after all. 

No, Boltac realized, there was no stopping him. So why had he tried? Because he saw himself in the lad and would have given anything and risked everything to take back the poor choices of his own youth. He spit and cursed the Bards. It was all their fault. Putting all these ideas in young men's heads. Sending them off to war or in search of gold. 

Damn it all. He stomped to the sword barrel, He drew one of the blades and tested its balance. Awful. He sighted the edge. It was as curved as an old whore's back. What an awful piece of workmanship. It was the kind of item he would willingly sell to a fool, but not the kind of weapon he would wish on his worst enemy. A man needed a sword he could trust. Boltac saw the shape of a terrible memory rising from the dark waters of his mind. Before the thought could fully take hold, he slammed the sword back in the barrel. 

He walked to the rack of weapons. He removed the blade on the bottom. It was the one he would have chosen, if he were spending his own money. It was a stout, Mercian sword. At one end, its straight blade came to a broad triangular point and at the other the hilt was heavy round pommel that, in the hands of someone who knew what they were doing, qualified as a weapon on its own. The blade sang softly as he unsheathed it and begged to dance in his hand. He sighted this weapon and its hard edge was as crisp, final and unforgiving as the border between life and death.

There wasn't a soul on the streets as Boltac crossed the square. The stars seemed impossibly high and uncaring. When he got to the Farm Boy he hung the sword around the lad's neck very carefully, so as not to wake him. Underneath the thick head of straw-blond hair, Boltac could see a freshly-risen lump. Ouch. He reached out to touch it. His fingers almost made contact. Then Boltac became self-conscious. He looked around as if he was afraid of being caught doing something wrong. But there was no one watching. 
He scuttled back across the square. 
